right so we're going to talk about
energy based models and it's basically a
farm arc which we can through which we
can express a lot of different learning
algorithms not the ones that are kind
simple like like we've seen in
supervised running but but things that
are a little more sophisticated and it
sort of encompasses also a lot of our
basic methods but it's a little simpler
to understand I think then the probably
sick methods and probably sick methods
really are kind of a special case if you
want off of energy based models and I
think it's kind of informally that said
you know sort of enlightening in the
sense that it explains a lot of things
that seem very different when when you
don't get this sort of unifying view of
things so what I'm going to talk about
first applies equally well to supervised
learning what some people call
supervised running or whatever we call
self supervised running we shall talk
about a little bit today and it's
basically we're going to talk about
models that observe a set of variables X
and we're asking the model to predict a
set of variables Y and I'm not
specifying that X is an image or
whatever and Y is a is a discrete
variable like for classification Y could
be like an integral Y and X could be an
interview or X could be an image and Y a
piece of text that describes it or X
could be a sentence in one language and
Y sentence in another language
X could be an entire text and Y could be
a simplified version of that text or an
abstract so it could be anything really
I'm not kind of specifying necessarily
here but it comes from the fact that
these two issues with sort of
feed-forward models whether there are
neural nets or something else doesn't
matter a classical model
precedes by you know doing if a finite
fixed number of calculations to produce
an output if you have a multi-layer net
you know there is a fixed number of
layers even if you have a recurrent net
there is some sort of limit to how many
times you can unfold it so it's you know
basically a fixed amount of computation
but there are there are two issues for
which this is not entirely appropriate
the the the first one or two situations
the first situation is when computing
the output we acquire some more complex
calculation and just virtual weighted
sums and non-linearity in a kind of
finite number when the inference is
complex and the second situation is when
we're trying to train the machine to
produce not a single output but a
possible set of outputs so in the case
of classification we're actually
training a machine to produce multiple
outputs we are training it to produce a
separate score for every possible
category that we have in our in a system
ideally the system would prove we
produce the the best score for the
correct class and you know if it's a
small scores for for the other ones in
practice you know when we run the output
of a neural net through soft max it
produces the kind of scores and we just
pick the one that has a high score but
basically what we are telling the
mission to do is produce a score for
every category and then we'll pick the
best okay
now this is not possible when the output
is continuous and high-dimensional so
the output is let's say an image we
don't have soft maxes over images okay
we don't have a way of listing all
possible images and then you know
normalizing a distribution over them
because it's high dimensional continuous
space even if it were a low dimensional
continuous space it would not be
possible we would have to build that
continuous space into discrete discrete
bins and then do a swap max over that
but that doesn't work very well I don't
know it only works in small dimension in
low dimension okay so when we have a
high dimensional continuous space we can
do soft max we can't ask the system to
give us a score for all possible outputs
similarly even if it's discrete but
potentially infinite so things like
we're producing text text is
compositional and there is a very very
large number of
of possible text of a given length and
we can't just do a soft max over all
possible texts same problem so how do we
how do we represent a distribution or a
bunch of scores over all possible texts
in a compact form that's where energy
based models come in or probabilistic
model so that matter but energy business
models in particular and the solution
that energy based models give us there
is the idea that we're going to use an
implicit function in other words we're
going to we're not going to a score
system to produce a why we're just going
to ask you to tell us whether the next
and a particular way we show it are
compatible with each other so it's this
text a good translation of that text
okay that sounds kind of weak right
because how are we going to come up with
with that text that or machine is
comparing but let's let's film let's
hold this for a bit okay so with an end
is function f of X Y is going to take an
X on a wine it's going to tell us if
those two values are compatible with
each other or not okay so is why a good
label for the image X is y it would a
good hide it high resolution version of
this really low resolution image if Y a
good translation of that sentence in
German etc and so the inference
procedure now is going to be given an x
find a y that produces a low value for
which f of X Y produces a low value in
other words finally far away that's
compatible with X okay so search hover
over a possible wise for a value of y
that produces a low value for f of X Y
okay so this is the idea of influenced
by minimizing some function and pretty
much every model problems take on
probabilistic whatever that you get that
people have thought about gonna work
this way I mean except you know even
classification multi-class
classification with neural nets or
whatever implicitly worked by energy
minimization by basically finding the
class that has the
the best score which you can think of as
the lowest energy so basically we're
going to try to find an output that
satisfies a bunch of constraints and
those constraints are implemented by
this function f of X Y okay and if
you've heard of graphical models
Bayesian networks you know all that
stuff or even classical AI or Sat
problems they basically they can all be
formulated in those terms as finding the
value of a set of variables that will
minimize some function that measures
their compatibility okay so we're not
talking about learning right now okay
we're just are talking about inference
we're assuming this function f of X Y is
given to you we're gonna talk about how
we learn it a little later okay so the
energy function is not what we need
measuring running it's what we realize
during inference so inference is
competing Y from X so this energy
function is scalar value it takes low
values when Y is compatible with X and
higher values when Y is not comparable
with X so you'd like this function to
have shape in such a way that for a
given x over values of Y that are
compatible with this X have low energy
and all the values that are not
compatible with that given X have higher
energy and that's all you need because
then the inference procedure is going to
find the Y Y check that written here
which is the value of y that minimizes F
of XY it's not going to be the value is
will be a value because they might be
multiple values okay and your inference
algorithm might actually go through
multiple values or examine multiple
values before kind of giving you one or
several okay let's take an example very
simple example in one dimension of
scalar variable so X here is a is a real
value and Y is the real value and the
blue dots here are data points okay so
what you want is if you want to capture
the dependency between x and y in the
data is that you would like an energy
function that has either this shape or
that shape or some other shape but which
is has a shape that in such a way that
if you take a particular value of x the
value of weather has a lowest value is
near the blue points near the blue dots
which are the data points ok so a
function like this captures the
dependency between x and y now to do the
inference of what is the best y for
given x if you have a function like this
you can use gradient descent so if they
give you an x to figure out what's the
best value of y that corresponds to this
X you can start from some random Y and
then by gradient descent
find the minimum of the function and
you'll fall down to the Rubies here
maybe a little harder for this one but
from the point of view of characterizing
the dependency between those two
variables those two energy functions are
just about as good as each other I'll
come to this
the discrete case when y is discrete is
the easy is the easy case okay and we've
already talked about this and I'll kind
of reformulate this in terms of energy
in just a couple minutes okay so a FIFO
model is an explicit function in that it
computes the prediction Y from from X
but it can only make one prediction we
can cheating in the case of a discrete
variable but putting out multiple
outputs which correspond to a skort for
every possible classification but it
effect but you can't use this trick for
high dimensional continuous values or
compositional values as I as I said
earlier so religion is model is really
an implicit function so remember you
know in calculus for an implicit
function you want the equation of a
circle as a function of x and y you
can't write Y as a function of X you
write an equation that says you know X
square plus y square equal 1 that gives
you the unit circle okay so XY plus y
square equal 1 is I mean s square plus y
square minus 1 is only is an implicit
function and when you solve it equal to
0 you get the you get the so called so
here's another example here again scalar
values for x and y and the black dots
here are data points so for the three
value of x indicated by the red bar
there's multiple value of y that are
compatible ones and some of them are
actually so a continuum of values so
we'd like our energy function to be is
something that looks like this it's
basically here I'm sort of drawing the
sort of level level set of that of that
energy function so it takes low energy
on the data points on higher energy
outside this is kind of a slightly more
complicated version of the the dual kind
of 3d models that I showed earlier and
the questio
is how do we train a system so that it
adapts so that the energy function it
computes actually has the proper shape
it's nice when y is continuous that F be
smooth and differentiable so that we can
use gradient based inference algorithms
right so if we have a function like this
and I give you a point X Y you can you
know through gradient descent you can
find the point on the data of any pole
that is closest to it or something
similar to that if I give you a value
for x you can you know search by
gradient descent along the y direction
for a value that kind of minimizes it so
that's the inference algorithm
well sorry an algorithm is really a
prescription then the algorithm is how
you do this minimization and for that
there's all kinds of different methods
gradient based methods are one of them
but there are all kinds of methods are
in the case where F is complicated you
you may not have it may not be possible
to to rely on the search methods so you
may have to use other tricks in most
cases though it simplifies so just as an
aside for those of you who know a
graphical models are a graphical model
is basically an energy based model where
the energy function decomposes as a sum
of energy terms and each energy turn
takes into account a subset of the
variables that you're dealing with so
the beacon of a collection of F's and
some of some FS would take a subset of Y
someone else who take a subset of x and
y's etc and if they organize in a
particular form then there are efficient
inference algorithms to find the minimum
of the sum of those terms with respect
to the variable you're interested in
inferring so this is what you know beef
application and all those algorithms do
for in graphical models this is an aside
you don't if you don't know what I'm
talking about it doesn't matter
so as I said the situations where you
might want to use this is when influence
basically is more complex than just you
know running through a few layers of
neural net when the output is high
dimensional and has structure like a
sequence or C or an image or a sequence
of images which is a video when the
output has compositional structure
whether it's text action sequences you
know things like that or when the output
should result from sort of a long chain
of reasoning so it's not just you know I
can just compute the output you need to
kind of solve a constraint satisfaction
problem to basically produce the output
or you know do kind of long chains of
reasoning okay this is a particular type
of energy based models which is really
where where they start becoming
interesting is energy based model and
evolve latent variables okay so so an
initiative model that depends on latent
variable written variable EBM in this
case we depend not just on the variable
that you observe X and the variable you
wanna predict Y but also we depend on
some extra variable Z that nobody tells
you the value of okay and the way you
use this latent variable is is that you
build your model in such a way that the
it depends on the latent variable that
if you use a value of this latent
variable the inference problem would
become easier so let's say you want to
do my team recognition and I like this
example which I told you about already
if you know what the characters are
reading this where it becomes much
easier okay
the the main problem here in reading
this word is not just to read the
individual characters but to actually
figure out where the characters are like
where where one character ends well
where the other one begins and if I were
to tell you that it would be much easier
for you to read that to read to read
that word if I were quite good at this
if you read this sequence of characters
here in English if you understand
English you can probably pass it you can
probably figure out where the word
boundaries are because you have this for
a high level knowledge for weather where
you know what the words are in English I
think the same thing to you inferential
you have no idea what the word
boundaries are okay unless you speak
French so the word batteries in this
case and the character boundaries on top
would be useful to solve a problem it
would allow you for example to in the
case of character recognition to have
individual character recognizers apply
to each character but you don't know
where they are so how do you know how do
you solve that problem so that's that
would be a useful latent variable if I
told you
so for speech recognition the problem is
is that you don't know where other
boundaries between the words are you
don't know where the boundaries between
the phonemes are either speech is very
much like like this continuous text
continuous speech we can parse their
words because we know where the words
are because we understand the language
but some ways speaking a language you
don't understand
you have a very faint idea where the
word boundaries are most of the time you
can't in languages where there is no
stress in English it's kind of easy
because the stress on the word so if you
can figure out what the stress is you
can probably figure out more or less
where the word boundaries are in French
where there is no stress
you can't yeah like no way of figuring
out your video now phasma say okay we do
only a font or move right so you know
it's it's kind of a continuous string of
phonemes and it's very hard to tell
where the word boundaries are unless you
know the language so that would be a
useful later enviable to have because if
someone told you where where those
boundaries were then you will be able to
do the to do the task so that's that's
how you would use latent variables
and this way of using latent variable
latent variables has been used for
decades in the context of speech
recognition in the context of natural
language processing in the context of
character recognition as I said OCR and
you know number of different other
applications particularly ones that
involve sequences but also in
computation so things like you know you
want to kind of detect where a person is
but you don't know how that person is is
dressed or what what position that
person is in things like this so you
know those are variables that if you
knew that I'm what can I help you solve
the task although nowadays vision just
works okay so if you have a little
variable model this is how you doing
firms so you have a new energy function
now it's called not F G of X Y Z and two
in France your 1703 memorize it with
respect to Z and Y okay so you ask the
system give me the combination of
variables of y&z that minimize this
energy function I actually don't care
about the values of Z I only care about
the value of y but I have to do this
simultaneous minimization okay
and I'll give you some more concrete
examples a little later
in fact that's equivalent to defining a
new energy a new energy function f which
I call F infinity here that only depends
on x and y f infinity of XY is the min
over Z of a of XYZ you take a function
of XYZ you find the minimum of this
function over Z Z now gets eliminated
you get a function of x and y okay
in practice you never do that so I
didn't practice to minimize with respect
to Z in y7 industry because we don't
know how to represent a function
but there is an alternative to this
which is to define F here with I write F
of beta or if f.indexof ADA of XY is
minus 1 over beta log so more integral
over Z of e to the minus beta e of XYZ
now a little bit of competition well
well you will see that if you make beta
a go to infinity this kind of F beta
converges to F infinity which is why I
called it f infinity and I went to this
exercise a little earlier in the class
in this integral over Z if beta is very
large the only term that is going to
matter is the term Y of X Y Z that has
the lowest value which is the the one
that has the the lowest value over all
possible values of Z right because all
the other ones are going to be much
bigger because beta is very very large
and so they are valuing the exponential
is not going to count really the only
one that's going to count is the one
that has the lowest value and so if you
have only one term in there which is e
of X Y Z for the value of Z that
produces the smallest value then the log
cancels the exponential and the minus 1
over beta I can't cancel the minus beta
and you're left with just min over Z of
Z of X Y Z ok so that's the limit that
you see above so if I define f of X Y in
this way and again then I'm back to the
previous problem of just minimizing F of
XY with respect to Y for doing inference
ok so I think an enviable model doesn't
make much of a difference you have an
extra minimization with respect to the
latent variable to do but other than
that is fine
so there's a big advantage also to
allowing latent variables which has said
by varying the latent variable over set
I can make the output the prediction of
the system vary over a set as well so
here's a particular architecture here
where X goes into what I'll call a
predictor which is some sort of neural
net it produces some representation
future representation of X and then X
and Z the written viable go into what I
call here decoder which produces a
prediction Y bar okay it's a prediction
for the variable Y that is the one that
we want to predict and our energy
function here just compares Y bar and y
it's simply the distance between them
okay you're familiar with this kind of
diagram we talked about about them
earlier so if I choose to vary Z over a
set let's say 20 missional square here
symbolized by this gray diagram then the
the prediction Y bar is going to vary
also over a set in this case here some
sort of ribbon to the mercial ribbon and
what that allows me to do is basically
have a machine now they can produce
multiple outputs okay by varying the
latent variable I can have this machine
produce multiple outputs not just one
that's crucially importance
so let's say you're trying to do video
prediction so there's many ways many
reasons why you might want to do video
production when one good reason is to
build a very good video compression
compression system for example another
good reason is the video you're trying
to predict is the video you are looking
at from your windchill when you're
driving a car and you'd like to be able
to predict what cars around you are
gonna do this is what afraid always
working and so it's very useful to be
able to predict what's gonna happen
before before it happens in fact that's
kind of the essence of intelligence
really the ability to predict now you
looking at me right now just a minute
you're looking at me right now I'm
talking you're some idea of the word
that is going to come out of my mouth in
a few seconds is some idea of what
gesture I'm going to do yet some idea or
what direction are going to move in but
not a precise idea right so if you train
your neural net to make a single
prediction for what I'm going to look
like two seconds from now there's no way
you can make an accurate prediction if
you train yourself with least square
okay we should try to come from that or
something to predict the view of me here
Willie square the best the system can do
is produce a blurry image of me because
it doesn't know if I'm going to move
left or right doesn't know if my hands
are going to be like this or like that
and so it's going to produce the average
of all the possible outcomes and that's
gonna be a blurry image okay so it's
very important that your predictor
whatever it is be able to deal with
uncertainty and be able to make multiple
predictions and the way to parameterize
the set of predictions is through a
little variable and not yet talking
about distributions or probably stick
modeling this is this is way before okay
way before we're talking about this
question there see again
well Suzy Zen is not a is not a a
parameter it's not a weight it's a value
that changes for every sample right so
basically during training we haven't
talked about training yet but during
training I give you an X and y you find
new Mises the energy function with the
current values of the parameters of of
those neural nets okay that's the best
yes your best guess for what the value
of Z is and then you feed that to some
loss function that you're going to
realize with respect to the parameters
of the network the loss function is not
necessarily the average not necessarily
the energy it might be something else
okay
in fact most of the time is something
else so in that sense you you're on Z
you info Z okay you don't want to use
the term learn because learning means
you have one value of the vibe all you
you learn for a whole training set here
for Z you have different value for every
sample in your training set or every
sample your test site for that matter
okay
so they're not learned in that sense
they're inferred yeah another example of
this is his translation so translation
has is a big problem language
translation because there is no single
correct translation of a piece of text
from one language to another usually
there is a lot of different ways to
express the same idea and and why would
you pick one over the other and so it
might be nice if there was some way of
characterizing all the possible
translations that the system could
produce that would correspond to a given
text it's in German that you want to
translate into English there could be a
multiple translation in English are all
correct and by varying some written by
ball you might you know vary the
translation that is produced okay so now
let's connect this with probabilistic
pricing model there is a way of turning
energies which you can think of as kind
of negative scores if you want because
low energy is good and high energy is
bad to turn energies into probabilities
and the way to twenty illusion to
probabilities we talked about this
already
a
little bit is to use what's called a
Gibbs Boltzmann distribution so the the
form of this you know goes back to
classical statistical physics in the
nineteenth century and the P of Y given
X is exponential minus beta where beta
is some constant the energy of x and y
and then you want to so that turns all
those energies into positive numbers
when we take the exponential of a number
makes it positive and the minus sign is
there to turn low energy into a high
probabilities and vice versa okay and
I'm using this convention because this
is what physicists have been using for
the last century more century and a half
so taking Exponential's you you turn the
energies into positive numbers and then
you normalize so you normalize in such a
way that the the P of Y X is a properly
normalized distribution over Y and to
make it a properly distribution normal
distribution or why you divide by the
integral or the sum if weighs discrete
over Y of e to the minus beta f of X Y
which is the same thing as the top
except you you integrate over all
possible values of Y now if you compute
the integral of this over Y is equal to
1 because obviously you get the integral
on top the integral at the bottom which
is a constant and you get 1 okay so that
confirms that this is kind of this has
this satisfies the axioms of probability
distributions that it has to be positive
numbers that integrate to one this is a
particular like there's many ways to
turn a bunch of like a function into a
function that integrates to 1 a positive
function e 2 is to 1 what's this one has
interesting properties which are not
going to go through but corresponds to
the so-called maximum entropy
distribution the beta parameter is kind
of arbitrary it's is the way you
calibrate your probability
as a function of your energy so the
larger the beta the most of binary or at
your probability will be for a given
energy function if beta is very very
large is basically just the the the U of
X Y that pretty for the Y that produces
the lowest energy that will have high
probability and everything else will
have very low probability and for small
beta for a small beta then you'll get
kind of a smoother distribution okay
beta in physics term is a came to an
inverse temperature okay so the delayed
was to infinity is equal to zero
temperature okay a little bit of math
it's not that scary to show you where
the formula for F beta comes from that I
talked about earlier so let's go through
this slowly here the joint probability
of P of y and z given x okay I apply the
same bossman gives Boltzmann
distribution formula as I used before
except now it's a joint distribution
over y&z instead of just a distribution
over Y this is for a latent variable
model okay so it's e to the minus the
energy of X Y Z and then I have to
normalize I have to integrate in the
denominator with respect to y and z so
that I get a normalized distribution
over the joint domain of y&z okay so
that's the formula at the top left
I can imagine y Z so if I integrate P of
y and z given x I integrate this over Z
I get just P of Y okay that's the
marginalization formula which is at the
top right and so now if I write P of Y X
is simply the integral over Z of the one
at the top left okay which is written in
the second line so at the top we have
integral over zero e to the minus beta
energy of XYZ and
bottom is equal to Y integral over Z of
e to the minus beta e to the X Y Z
alright ok now I'm going to do something
very sneaky no stupid which is that I'm
going to take the log of this formula x
minus 1 over beta then x minus beta and
then take the exponential all of those
things cancel out ok the log cancels the
exponential the minus 1 over beta
cancels the minus beta right so I
haven't done anything by doing this e to
the minus beta times minus 1 over beta
log I've done nothing
because everything cancels ok and I do
the same at the bottom and what I see
now is that the stuff in the bracket in
store formula were previously F beta of
X y equals minus 1 over beta log some
over Z integral over Z of e to the minus
beta e of X Y Z and so I can rewrite
this horrible complicated formula here
as in to the minus beta F theta of X Y
divided by integral over Y of e to the
minus beta F of XY what does this all
mean it means that if you have a latent
viable model and you want to eliminate
the Z variable the latent variable in a
probabilistic correct way you just
really find that the energy F as this as
a function of V of X Y Z and you're done
okay you're done is a little bit of a
shortcut because actually computing this
can be very hard okay can be intractable
in fact in most cases probably it's
intractable
I am using a minus in the denominator
you are correct okay so the last few
slides were to say if you have an it
enjoyable that you minimize over inside
of your model or you have a little
variable that you want to marginalize
over which is which you do by defining
this new this energy function f this way
mimicing corresponds to the infinite
beta limit of this formula it can be
done okay I mean just to get a
substitution in the second line okay the
the last two terms in the second line
the bracket are replaced by F theta of X
Y because and I just define a video of X
Y this way okay let's just define it
this way and if I define f of X Y this
way then P of Y given X is just an
application of the gifts awesome and
formula right and Z has been kind of
marginalize implicitly inside of of this
okay
so physicists call this a free energy by
the way which is why I call it f okay so
here's the energy and F is a free energy
so the difference is in prognostic
models you basically don't have the
choice of the objective function you're
going to minimize and you have to stay
true to the sort of probabilistic remark
in in a sense that every object you
manipulate has to be a normalize
distribution which you may approximate
using variational methods or whatever
here I'm saying ultimately what you want
to make you know what you want to do
with those models is make decisions and
if you're if you're if you build a
system that drives a car and the system
tells you you know I need to turn left
with probably tip on a tour turn right
fits for you to point to your gonna turn
left okay the the fact that the
probabilities there are point two and
point eight
doesn't matter what you wanted to make
the decision that is the the best right
because you have to make a decision
you're forced to make a decision so if
you want a system that so so
probabilities are completely useless if
you want to make decisions okay if you
want to combine the output of a
automated system with another one for
example a human or some other system and
this system haven't been trained
together but they've been trained
separately then what you want to
calibrate it scores so that you can
combine the scores of the two systems to
make a good decision and there is only
one way to care about scores and is to
kind of turn them into probabilities all
other ways are you doing carrier or
equivalent okay but if you're gonna
train the system end-to-end to make
decisions then then know then whatever
scoring function you use is fine as long
as it gives the best score to the
decision that to the best decision that
gives you way more choices in how you
head all the model where more choices of
how you train it
what objective function you use
basically if you if you insist that your
model be probabilistic you have to do
maximum likelihood so we basically have
to train your model in such a way that
the probably
gave to the data you observe is maximum
okay the problem is that this is this
can only be proven to work in the case
where your model is correct and your
model is never correct in a sense that
you know there's this famous quit by the
famous statistician box that said all
models are wrong but some are useful so
probably seek models particularly a
party seek model in high dimensional
spaces and producing models in community
community all situations like texts and
things like this are approximate models
they're all wrong in a way and if you
try to normalize them you make them more
wrong so you're better off kind of not
normalizing them there's another point
that's actually more important and I
come back to this little diagram and had
this one so this is meant to be an
energy function that captures the
dependency between x and y ok and it's
it's like a mountain range if you want
okay
the values are where the black dots are
these are the data points and then
there's kind of mountains all around now
if you try to progress each model with
this imagine that the points are
actually on a thin manifold of of
infinitely an infinitely thin manifold
okay so the the data distribution for
the white dot for the black dots is
actually a just a line okay it's one
line to line three lines but their lines
they don't have any any width if you
want so if you're trying to probably
sick model on this you're probably sick
model should give you your density model
should tell you when you are on this
manifold the the outputs should be
infinite the density is infinite and
just actually on that side of it it
should be zero okay that would be the
correct model distribution of the of
this distribution it's a thin plate
not some idiot that should be infinite
but the integral of it should be one
okay it's very difficult to implement on
the computer that's only that is
basically impossible because let's say
you want to compute this function
through some sort of neural net your
neural net will have to have infinite
weights and infinite ways that are
calibrated in such a way that the
integral of the output of that of that
system over the entire domain is one
it's basically impossible you cannot
have accurate probablistic model the
accurate correct probabilistic model for
this particular data that I just told
you is impossible this is what maximum
likelihood we want you to produce and
there is no computer in the world I can
compute this okay so in fact it's not
even interesting because imagine that
you had a perfect density model for the
density I just I just mentioned which is
a thin plate in that XY space I can't do
inference if I give you a value of x and
I ask you what's the best value of y you
will be able to find it because all
values of Y except a set of zero
probability have priority zero and it's
just you know a few values like for
example for this value of x there are
three values that are possible okay and
there are infinitely now and so you
wouldn't be able to find them there's no
inference algorithm that will allow you
to find them because there is roof there
just derive functions how do you find so
the only way you can find them is if you
make that if you make your contrast
function smooth and differentiable and
then you know you can start from any
point and buy a gradient descent you can
find a good value for y for any value of
x but this is not gonna be a good
probabilistic model of the distribution
if if the distribution is of the type I
mentioned okay so here is a case where
insisting to have a good politic model
actually is bad okay maximum likelihood
sucks so if you are a true Bayesian you
say oh but like you know you can correct
this by I think you're strong prior
where the prior says your density
function has to be smooth and you know
you can think of this as a prior so but
everything you're doing so Bayesian
terms take the logarithm they're off
forget about normalization and you get
energy based models so energy based
models that have a regularizer which is
additive to your energy function a
completely equivalent to Bayesian models
where the likelihood is next exponential
of the energy and now you get
exponential when term energy per you
know times exponential regularizer
and so it's equal to exponential energy
plus regularizer and if you remove the
exponential you have an energy based
model with an additive regularizer so
there is kind of a correspondence
between you know probably seek invasion
methods there but insisting that you do
maximum likelihood is sometimes bad for
you particularly in high dimensional
spaces or community or spaces where your
politic model is very wrong it's not
very wrong in discrete distributions
it's okay but in that case you know it's
really one and all models are wrong okay
so there is a form of learning and I'll
come back to this to this at length in
future lectures called supervised
running and it's really sort of
encompasses first of all supervised
learning but also kind of what people
used to call unsupervised running and
all of things and I think it's the
really the future of machine learning is
in sub supervised running and you start
seeing this these days you know over the
last year and a half there's been
enormous progress in NLP because of
systems like Bert and those systems are
trained using supervised running a
particular form of stuff super Arsenal
denoising auto-encoder which we'll talk
about
there's been also quite a bit of
progress over the last three months or
so in using such supervised learning to
train systems to run vision systems to
learn features using a you know it's all
supervised pre-tax tasks and the purpose
of such supervised running is to train a
system to learn good representations of
the input so that you can subsequently
use those representations as input to a
supervised task or reinforcement
learning task or whatever the thing is
there is a lot more information that the
system can use in the context of such
supervised running so let me tell you
what I mean by itself supervised
learning so surprised learning is that
someone gives you a chunk of data and
you go to train a system to predict a
piece of that data given another piece
of that data okay so for example I give
you a piece of video and ask you use the
first half of the video and train a
model to predict the second half of that
video why would that be good
why would that be good in the context of
running features for for vision systems
for example if I train myself to predict
what the world is going to look like
what my view of this room will look like
if I shave my head a little bit to the
left the best explanation for how do how
the view changes is that every point in
space has a depth as a distance for my
eyes okay
in fact if I sort of infer somehow that
every point has a distance from I is
there and I can very simply explain how
the world changes when I move because
things that are closer can have more
products motion than things that are far
and you get this sort of you know
perspective distortion and so
there is this idea somehow that if I
train a system to predict whether what
is going to look like if I move a camera
the system implicitly will run about
depth you will not have you will not
have to be training it to predict depth
in a supervised fashion it will have to
internally kind of discover that there
is such a thing as depth if you wants to
do a good job at that prediction which
means you don't have to hardwired into
the system that the world is
three-dimensional is going to learn this
in minutes by just predicting highs view
of the world changes but you know when
you move the camera now once the system
has figured out that every point has a
depth in the world then the notion that
there are distinct objects that are in
front of the background immediately pops
up because objects are things that move
differently from things are behind ok
there's nothing that pops up immediately
which is the fact that objects that are
now not visible he don't buy another one
or still there ok it's just that you
don't see them because they are behind
but this concept that objects still
exist when you don't see them it's not
completely obvious you know babies run
this really really early but it's not
clear exactly when because we can
measure that when they are very little
but you probably learned this very quick
once you have identified this concept of
objects perhaps you'll you'll figure out
that a lot of objects in the world
don't move spontaneously ok so there are
inanimate objects and then there are
objects whose trajectories are not
entirely predictable and those are
animate objects or other types of
objects that you know move in not
entirely predictable ways like like you
know the waves in the water on water but
are not animate this is Sally or like
the leaves of a tree and then after a
while you also you also realize that
objects that have predictable
trajectories generally don't float in
the air if they're not supported they
fall okay so you you can start learning
about so intuitive physics about gravity
about inertia babies run this around the
age of nine months so this is not
something you're born with you cannot
run this around nine months you as a
baby you run that gravity is a thing
before that you don't know so the
motivation for such supervised learning
and this is one reason I think such
supervised learning is really the future
of machine learning so and the future of
AI is the fact that animals and humans
seem to run an enormous amount of
background knowledge about the world
just by observation by basically
training themselves to predict so one
big question in AI in fact the question
I almost exclusively work on is how do
we do this okay we haven't found a
complete answer yet right so I give you
a piece of data it's a video and the
machine is going to pretend there is a
piece of that data that it doesn't see
and then another piece that it season is
going to try to predict the piece that
it doesn't see from the piece that it
sees okay so pretty future friends in
the video predict missing words in the
sentence or I give you a sentence I
block some of the words and the system
trends itself to predict the words that
are missing or I show you a bunch of a
video when I block you a piece of the
frames of some of the some of the frames
piece of the image for some of the
frames you know putting the less half
from the right half you know right now
right now you only see my right side but
even if you've never seen my left side
you could more or less predict what I
look like from the other side most
people are more or less symmetric except
scary Hollywood characters
so when instance we're so surprised
running has been unbelievably successful
and it it only happens over the last
year and a half is its text so text use
a particular type it's a supervised
running called denoising auto-encoder so
you take a piece of text you remove some
of the words typically ten fifteen
twenty percent of the words so you
replace the the token indicates a word
by basically blank and then you train
some giant neural net to predict the
words that are missing it's the system
cannot make an exact prediction about
which words are missing and so you train
it as a classifier by producing a big
softmax vector for each word which
corresponds to a probability probability
distribution over words okay
and once you've trained this system you
chop off the last layer and you use the
second last layer as a representation of
any text you feed it is a particularly
texture of this network that makes it
work well but it's irrelevant to the
point that we're making I'm making right
now those transformer networks that we
talked about last week a little bit so
but it's a reasonable task of completion
tasks filling in the blanks take a
sentence remove some of the words train
the system to predict the words that are
missing that works amazingly well
although type in our pieces stands now
that have the best performance of all
the benchmarks basically are pre-trained
using a method like this and the cool
thing about it is that you know you have
as much text as you want on the web to
pre train those systems you don't need
to label anything is very cheap is very
expensive in terms of computation
because those networks are enormous for
them to work well but it works really
well
so immediately people try to translate
that success into a similar success for
images so let's say I take an image
block out some pieces of it and then
train some commercial net or something
to
predict the missing pieces in the image
and the results have been extremely
disappointing it doesn't work really I
mean it works well in the sense that the
images get completed we sort of you know
things that make sense but then if you
use the internal representation along
this way as input to a computer vision
system you can't beat a computer vision
system that has been pre trained
supervisors on imagenet so what's the
difference
you know why does it work for an LP and
it doesn't work for images and it is
that the difference is that NLP is
discrete or as images or continuous
people also try to do this for video so
same idea as as both except replaced
words by video frames so if you a big
video to transform a light system or
something similar remove some of the
frames or blocks of frames and then
train the system to predict the missing
frames and the features we get another
not so great so that's the the
difference is things seems to work in
the discrete world they don't seem to
work in the continuous world and the
reason is because in discrete in the
discrete world we know how to represent
uncertainty by a big softmax vector over
words you continuous spaces we don't so
if I want to try the system to do video
production I don't know how to represent
the probability distribution over
multiple video frames
so here's another reason why we might
want to use a supervisor on e and deal
with uncertainty and again this is what
our Friday was working on others it's
the fact that we'd like to have we'd
like our machines to be able to kind of
reason about the world predict what's
gonna happen so I told you before an
example where to be able to build a
machine that drives a car you it's
probably good idea to be able to predict
what caused around you are going to be
able to predict what your car is going
to do if you run you know if you're
driving you're a cliff and you turn the
wheel to the right and you want to
predict in advance that your car is
going to run off the cliff and you don't
you can if you can predict that you're
not gonna do it ok so if you have a good
predictive model of the world the system
that will predict the next state of the
world as a function of the current state
of the world and the action you take
then you can do you can be you can act
intelligently okay well you need other
components to act intelligently
but I'll come back to that but again
this ability to predict is the essence
of intelligence really the fact that you
know some animals are intelligent is
because they really have a much better
model of the world and the as a
consequence are better at acting on this
world - can I get the result they want
so the problem with the world is that
the world is not deterministic or I mean
maybe it is deterministic but we can't
predict exactly what's going to happen
so the fact that is deterministic or not
is irrelevant or when have a limited
capacity or computers have limited
capacity and we can't exactly predict
what's gonna what's going to happen and
so we need to be able to train our
system to train our brains to train our
AI systems to predict in the presence of
uncertainty and that's the most
difficult of
today to make significant progress in AI
how to train the system to make high
dimensional predictions under
uncertainty and here with this
uncertainty
and as I said before probably stick
models are basically hopeless okay so
let's take an example with video
prediction here are four frames
what's the continuation of those frames
so it's hard to see that the little girl
is about to grow on her birthday cake
and if you train a neural net with least
square to make predictions so you train
it on thousands of videos of this type
if not millions this is the kind of
prediction you get very brewery y system
cannot predict exactly what's gonna
happen so it predicts the average of all
the possible futures which is the best
way to minimize the squared error okay
and if you want sort of a model version
of this let's say your entire training
set consists of someone putting a pen on
the table and letting it go and the
person always put the pen exactly at the
same place the same way but every time
you do the experiment the pen falls into
you know in a different direction
so basically X is the same for every
training sample but Y is different
because the the pen can fall in any
direction probably with the uniform
distribution so if you try and hour on
that to predict Polly square you'll get
the average of all the possible
predictions which is a transparent pen
you know all around the circle which is
not a good prediction
that's why you need latent variable
models okay so if you make a prediction
by the system but you have latent
variables which indicate what you don't
know about the world
okay so X is what you know about the
well here is the initial segment of the
video of someone putting a pen you know
that when the person gives the figure
the pen will fall but you don't know in
which direction so what you want the
system to tell you is the particular
here that goes from X - H edge to be a
representation that tells you the pen is
on the on the table but I can't tell you
in which direction and then Z will have
the complimentary variable here is the
direction in which the pen actually fell
and then the combination of those two
pieces of information the stuff you can
extract from the observation and stuff
you cannot gives you the prediction Y
bar which hopefully is close to what
actually occurs okay so the way you use
something like this
you don't use it for I mean if you want
to use it to kind of rate a particular
scenario you give it X you give it Y
then you ask it what's the value of the
Z variable that minimizes the prediction
error in my model and then the resulting
prediction error is the energy and it's
how you model rate the compatibility
between x and y
to predict wise but you have to do is
you observe X and then you kind of dream
up a value of y within a certain domain
and that produces a y bar and then dream
up another value of Z and that will
produce it and produce another way bar
and you can produce a whole set of Y
bars by kind of drawing multiple values
of Z with either set or within the
distribution yes well so if what you're
predicting are the future frames which
observing other the past and current
frame like increasing you mean
increasing the past frames are you
looking at a little bit but you know
after a while things are gonna happen
that really don't depend I mean the
information about what's gonna happen
new future really is not present in the
in the best friends yes so in this
particular case there would be variables
are necessary to make a good prediction
but the information is not present in X
ok so the question was what's the wall
of Z really like you know doesn't
implement a constraint between x and y
or something else and in the this
particular example here that i showed
the latent variable
I should several example right one
example I showed is character
recognition if you knew where the
characters are then the task of
recognizing the characters would be
easier and so by making the inference
about where the characters are you know
user help in system you have you build
the system in such a way that it can use
that in this particular case here it's
different here the role of the latent
variable is to basically parameterize
the set of possible outputs that can
occur and in the end what you want is Z
to contain
the information about the about why that
is not present in X okay so the
information about you know where I'm
gonna move next I'm agree we've left or
right this is not present in anything
you can observe right now it's inside my
brain you can you know you can tell yes
I mean right now here I'm not assuming
anything other than you know Fred of X
is a big neuron that and deco that of H
and Z is being on that
okay so this is sort of an example of a
visualization of a energy landscape
where we've trained a neural net
basically to compute an energy function
here it's not a neural net it's a very
simple thing actually to capture the
dependency between two variables x and y
and the data points are along this
little spiral here so the data points
are kind of sample uniformly along this
spiral and then we train a system to
give you energy to to those points and
and higher energy to everything else now
these two forms there is this is sort of
a conditional but you can call
conditional energy in this model which
where there is two sets of viable X&Y
and you're trying to predict Y from X
but it's also another form of energy
based model which are unconditional
there's only a Y no X okay so you're
trying to predict the mutual
dependencies between the various
components of Y the distribution over Y
if you want but there's no X ok so this
is something you won't want to use if
you want to say to image generation
unconditionally right you want to just
you know model the initial dependencies
between things but you don't know which
you don't know at any point if you're
going to be able to observe Why Why
Norway - or none of them the math is the
same really
okay so how are you going to train those
energy this model this is really where
things become interesting it's the
question of training so training you
should do something like the little
animation at the top here it should kind
of shape the energy function because or
machine now is computes an energy
function as a virtual base and why it
should shape the energy function in such
a way that the data points have lower
energy than everything else okay because
that's the way the inference is going to
work
if if the correct value of y has really
lower energy than the incorrect values
of Y then or inference algorithm that
finds the value of y that produces the
lowest energy is going to work okay so
we need to shape the energy function so
that gives you energy to the good whites
for a given X and high energy to bad Y's
for given X it goes from R I mean it
goes from any domain you want to scaler
yes that is Sally so this model actually
is a written variable model in fact most
of you are probably very familiar with
the energy the model is used here is
k-means so how this is produced okay
okay let me delay this for a bit okay
but this is the energy surface of
k-means
which is a latent variable model let's
let's keep the little viable thing kind
of aside for a minute you know just
think of this as you have an energy f of
X Y and the fact that there may be
underlying latent variable for now is
you
relevant okay there's two classes of
methods to train energy based models and
again probably seek methods are all kind
of you know special cases within those
one class is called contrasting methods
and this idea is very natural take your
training sample X X over X I Y I and
change the parameters of the energy
function so that its energy goes down
okay easy enough
conversely take other points outside of
the manifold of data so have some
process by which you pick for given X
you keep you pick it bad Y and then push
the guy up okay if you keep doing this
with the last function that takes into
account those different different
energies then the energy function is
going to take a shape such that the
correct wire will have lower lower
energy than the bag wise okay
keep pushing down on the good values of
Y keep pushing up on the bad values of Y
so those are called contrastive methods
and they all differ by how you pick the
Y's that you push up and they all differ
by the last function you use to do this
pushing up and pushing down there's a
second category of methods and I'll call
them architectural methods in that case
you build the energy function f of X Y
so that the volume of low-energy regions
is limited or or is minimized through
regularization so you build a model in
such a way that whatever you push down
on the energy of data points the rest
goes up more or less automatically
because the volume of cells I can take
low energy is limited or minimized to
some organization okay those are very
broad concepts okay yes
that's one set of techniques but there's
many so there is a set of methods like
score matching for example that says the
gradient of the energy around the sample
should be zero and the second derivative
should be as large as possible the trace
of the Hessian should be large and so
basically you're telling it you know
make the make every data point a minimum
of the energy by making sure the energy
curls up around a Richmond example it's
very very hard to apply in practice
because you have to compute the gradient
with respect to the ways of the trace of
the Hessian of the energy function with
respect to the inputs I mean it's
compute L but yeah for simple models by
touch you can do it yeah simple models
like for linear models but it's hell
let's stay away from it okay so there's
a number of different strategies here it
says seven strategies but I kind of ran
Isis into those two categories of
contrastive methods and architectural
methods and there are kind of three sub
categories but you know in contrast even
for subcategories in architectural and
there are some names or voice algorithms
here that you might recognize some other
that you may not recognize which is okay
and I'm gonna try to go through some of
them now what I need to do
it's called score matching okay bear
with me for just one second okay so see
one contrastive Sergei one push down the
energy of data point push up everywhere
else and this is what maximum-likelihood
does and maximum likelihood pushes down
the energy of data points to minus
infinity and pushes up the energy of
other points to plus infinity which is
the problem that we were just talking
about earlier and so here is what
happens so you have this gift both on
distribution that gives the likelihood
of Y given X which is for a particular
data point y I X I it gives you the
probability that your model gives to
this particular value of y I forgiving X
I and it's you know exponential minus
beta the energy divided by exponential
minus beta the energy integrated over
all wise okay so if you want to maximize
so let's say you have a bunch of data
points and you want to maximize so here
are not writing X because it doesn't
matter and you want to maximize the
poverty at your model gives to this
particular value of y you want to make
the energy of this Y small which means
you want to make the e to the minus beta
the energy of this big and you want to
make the stuff at the bottom as small as
possible so instead of maximizing P of Y
we're going to minimize minus log P of y
okay so minus log P of Y so if I take
the log of this ratio I'm going to take
I'm going to get the difference of those
two terms the log of the difference you
know the the difference of the logs of
those two terms the log of the ratio is
the difference of the logs right so I
get log
e to the minus beta e of Y and then I
guess I get minus log integral over Y
you eaten - beta Y of Y I did I take the
negative of this because I want to
minimize okay so negative log
probability is what I want to minimize
and I get the last function here at the
bottom I divided everything by beta
which makes no difference as far as the
minimum is concerned okay so to go from
the top formula to the volume formula
you take minus log of the top formula
and you divide by beta
so now we have a that gives us a loss
function and this source function where
we realize it says make the energy of
the day a point y as low as possible yi
of Y should be small and make the second
term as small as possible which means
which means make the energies that are
inside of this exponential - as large as
possible so the the second term is going
to push up on the energy of every point
including the data point now if I
compute the gradient of this objective
function so this is the probabilistic
approach okay thanks for actively so
compute the gradient of this jockey
function I get the gradient of the
energy at the data point why okay - this
formula here which is the expected value
over Y of the probability that my model
gives to Y that is given by the gives
awesome and distribution and that is
used as a coefficient to weigh the
gradient of the energy function at that
location okay so this integral here the
second term is basically the expected
value of the gradient I compute the
gradient for the energy function at
every point I weigh every point by the
probability that the model gives to my
to that particular Y and I compute that
weighted sum essentially if Y is
discrete this is discrete sum Y is
continuous is an integral
so the first term so now if I use this
in a gradient you know I get stochastic
gradient algorithm the first term is
going to try to make the energy of my
data point as well as possible and the
second term is going to push out the
energy of every single point every why
okay
and the problem is can i compute this at
all can i compute this integral so an
enormous chunk of publications in
probabilistic modeling have to do with
how do you either compute this estimate
this or approximate this because that
integral is in interesting cases is
intractable okay if Y is a space of
images
I cannot compute an integral over all
possible images there's no way except if
the energy function of the gradient of
the energy function is very very simple
okay most of the time it's not that
simple if you want a complex model to
capture the dependency of the world it's
not going to be that simple it's gonna
be some big neural net so this an
integral is going to be completely
intractable now there is little
servation in the fact that this is an
expected value and so to compute an
approximation and an expected value you
can compute an average of a finite
number of samples so if I sample why
it's from this distribution which is the
distribution of my model gives to Y and
I compute the average of the gradient
over those samples I get some finite
approximation of this it's called Monte
Carlo methods okay it's called a Monte
Carlo approximation invented by
physicists when they were trying to
build a time bomb in the 40s there are
other methods that are based on rational
methods so I don't really know how to
compute P I can't compute this integral
but let's say I replace K by another
distribution Q for which I can't compute
this average let's say Gaussian or
something and then I try to make you as
close to P as possible that's called
variational methods okay you've probably
heard that term many times that's
basically a variational methods you
approximate an expectation over a
distribution by replacing the
distribution by something you can
actually compute you try to make this
computable distribution as close as
possible to the real distribution using
some measure KL divergence right so here
is came in so k-means is a you can think
of k-means as a energy based models
energy Bismil you can interpret candies
in terms of energy of this model is
anyone okay with what cadiz is or you
forgotten we came into this okay so
k-means is this very simple clustering
algorithm where the energy function if
you've never heard of it this is a way
to explain he means the energy function
is written at the top here ye of Y Z is
y minus w zy w is a matrix and Z is a
set of one heart vectors okay so see
this discrete variable with K possible
values and it's a K dimensional vector
with one component equal to one and all
the other ones equal to zero okay so you
multiply Z by the matrix W the effect is
that what you get as this product is one
of the columns of W ok the kernel W that
gets multiplied by the component of Z
that's equal to one yes we produced and
everything else is is gone ok so that
product selects one column from the V
the columns of W are called prototypes
okay and if I give you a Y the way you
do inference is that you figure out
which Z which of the K possible vectors
of Z minimizes the reconstruction error
realizes the squared distance between
the corresponding column of W and the
data point that I'm looking at and the
energy is just is quite distance between
the two okay
now the energy function you see here
represented in this chart EWP's
right here
what you see here are kind of black
blobs and those correspond to quadratic
wells around each of the prototypes of W
so the system he has been trained and he
placed the columns of W along the
manifold of training samples which is
the spiral that's where all the training
samples are selected and the way this is
trained is very simple you just minimize
the expected the average energy over a
training site okay so basically I give
you why why is a training sample you
find a Z that memorizes the energy so
you find the prototype that is closest
to Y the column of W that's closest to Y
and then they do run step of gradient
descent so you move that vector close to
Y closer to Y then you take another Y
select which columns of W is closest to
it and move that colin little bit closer
to Y then you keep doing this that's not
exactly the KB's algorithm this is the
kind of stochastic gradient form of the
k-means algorithm the real k-means
algorithm actually Canada's sort of
coordinate descent if you want so it
fails both with the entire training set
and figures out for each data point
which column of W is closest to it and
then after you've done this you compute
every data point every corner W as the
average of all the data points to which
its associated and it goes a bit faster
if you do it this way as opposed to
stochastic gradient but the results are
the same in the end you minimize the
average of the energy over the training
set okay so that's an example if there
was a question about latent variable
earlier that's an example of a latent
variable model very simple one where the
decoder is linear is no dependent
dependency on X and what you're just
trying to do is model the distribution
over Y ok here Y is two-dimensional and
you're just trying to say you know if I
know what value of y can you put can you
tell me if I knew why one can you tell
me anything about
you y2 and once you have this energy
function you can I give you Y one you
can predict what the value of y two
should be I give you a random point you
can tell me what's the closest point on
the day of a fold by just searching for
the closest prototype basically okay so
he means that just explained here
belongs to the architectural methods
it's not a contrastive methods as you
can observe I do not push up on the
energy of anything I just push down on
the energy of stuff but k-means is built
in such a way that there is only K
points in the space that can have zero
energy and everything else will have
higher energy okay it's just designed
this way right so it's architectural in
that sense once I've decided on K have
limited the volume of space in a in Y
they can take low energy because these
only K points that can have zero energy
everything else grows quadratically as I
move away from them now let's talk about
if there's a bunch of other methods
these are my favorite methods I think
ultimately everybody will be using
architectural methods but right now the
stuff that works in images is
contrastive I say okay so contrastive
methods I have data points and
my model computes an energy function
let's say that looks like this so I'm
drawing the contours of equal cost okay
it's like a topographic map
so obviously that model is bad right
because it gives you energy to those
points here right those points have low
energy and they should not and then
those points have high energy and they
should not so what should I do
so obviously if I take if I take a a
training sample here and I change the
parameters of F F of an X Y so that the
energy goes down it's very going to move
the the function to have can lower
values in that region but that may not
be sufficient because it could be that
my energy functions permit rise in such
a way that it could be flat could be
zero everywhere so I need to explicitly
push up on other places okay and so a
good a good location to push up would be
those red locations here these are
locations that my model gives you energy
to but should not have low energy okay
so let's say let's say this is my
training sample right now okay the the
big black dot here that's my training
sample one way I can try to contrastive
system is by saying I'm going to push
down on the energy of that point and I'm
going to retrieve that point a little
bit by corrupting it some way adding
noise to it and we will push up on the
energy of a point that's nearby okay and
I'm going to do so multiple times
do this sufficiently many times
eventually the energy function is going
to curl up around every sample because I
modify a sample and I push up you know I
corrupt it a little bit and I push up on
the energy of that corrected sample the
contrastive sample and so eventually the
energy is going to take the right place
something a little smarter instead of
sort of randomly perturbing the this
Trini sample by you know some
perturbation around it I'm going to use
great in descent to kind of go down in
the energy surface and then I'm going to
get this point and push it up okay that
makes more sense right because I'm going
I'm going for the jiggler here I you
know the system kind of finds the point
that the system gives that it gives her
energy to currently and it pushes up
right so the procedure is here is a
training sample move down in the energy
surface you'll find a value of y that
has lower energy than the one you
started from and then that's a contra to
sample push it up push down on the
original sample push up on this new
sample you just got now this might be
expensive and your energy function may
be complicated may have local minima so
here's another technique the other
technique is start from the same
training sample and imagine that this
surface is like is like a you know like
a smooth mountain range and then give a
kick to the to this marble think of it
as a marble you're gonna give it a
random kick in a random direction and
you're gonna simulate this as a marble
rolling down this energy surface so
let's say I'm going to kick it in this
direction it's going to go in this
direction for a while and then it's
going to go down and the energy after
where I cut it off you get a point at
the end of this trajectory push it up
okay so I'm doing this very informally
but in fact there are so depending on
how you do this Here I am explaining the
principles of how those methods work but
in fact if you are interested in
producing modeling and what you're
interested in is to you maximum
likelihood what you need to do is send
sample produce samples according to the
probability your model gives to the same
thing the samples and there's ways to
run those algorithms in such a way that
the ratio of the probability with which
you will you will pick two samples
corresponds to the ratio of their
probabilities in the given by the model
which is all you need and that's
essentially done by you know the details
of how you implement those kind of
trajectories basically and like the
noise that you used to so okay so did
you give you names for this okay
the the random noise e corresponds to an
algorithm called denoising auto-encoder
and alfred was going to tell you more
about this the the gradient descent and
random kick versions the random kick
that's called contrastive divergence and
their form of this for and if
I search through the space by kind of
random perturbation sort of trying to
find low-energy space with noise it's a
special case of Monte Carlo methods and
if it's a continuous trajectory not a
continuous but if it's a trajectory
could be discrete is called Markov chain
Monte Carlo methods or MCMC and if it's
in a continuous space where you use kind
of this rolling ball with a random kick
method that's called Hamiltonian Monte
Carlo agency there's a question no okay
where the time you let me just talk
about Dan using auto encoder so what's
the Dino Dino to encoder it's a
particular type of energy based model
where you start with a Y so that you
only have Y's so you start with why you
correct it so this is the little diagram
that I showed earlier you correct this
sample okay you get another sample that
I I'm not gonna call and you pass this
through an encoder which is a neural net
and a decoder which is another neural
net and then you compare the output
which is a reconstruction for Y with y
in the classical form this is the
distance between y and y bar squared
okay and they see here in the network on
the left is just some some neural net
that you train the corruption is built
by hand
okay it's not trained so what does that
do for you this actually pushes up the
energy of corrupted points okay so here
the energy is so this is how you train
the system but the actual system doesn't
have the corruption you give it a why
you run it through the encoder and the
decoder and measure the reconstruction
error okay so it's exactly the same
diagram except no corruption so the
corruption is for training and this is
how you use it okay what does that do
for you you have space of Y you have
data points take a point Y and corrupt
it
okay and now you trade this neuron that
this encoder decoder to basically
reconstruct this corrupted point to from
the corrected point to produce the
original point the original turning
point okay so the the neural net
function is going to map it's going to
map this point to that point okay what
does that mean that means when you when
you plug a vector here Y and you do this
for every training sample and a large
number of corruptions okay what that
means is that when you plug a a point Y
here on the input and you measure its
energy which is a reconstruction error
this point if it's on the manifold if
it's on the menu full of data is going
to be reconstructed as itself therefore
its energy here which is a
reconstruction air will be zero okay if
he's trained properly whereas if you put
on the input a point that is outside the
manifold it's going to get reconstructed
as the closest point on the manifold
because it's been trying to do that
therefore the reconstruction error here
will be that will be this distance okay
well that means is now that the energy
computed by this de losing auto encoder
it such that it grows quadratically as
you move away from the manifold of data
if the thing is properly trained okay so
that's an example of contrastive methods
because you you say all the manifold
things should be zero the reconstruction
energy to be zero outside the manifold
the reconstruction energy should be the
distance to the medical okay
so Bertha's trained this way except the
space is discrete though community
toriel because it's text and the
corruption technique consists in masking
some of the some of the words and then
the reconstruction consists in
predicting the words are missing
you can always copy the words that are
not missing so you don't need to do it
okay so it's a special case of you as
you go to encoder it's actually called a
masked rotary encoder because the type
of corruption you do is masking pieces
of the input okay all right out of time
we'll talk about more of those
techniques next time